# Deploying Meteor Apps on Cloud Foundry

This repository demonstrates different ways to deploy Meteor applications on Cloud Foundry. 
There are at least three different ways to deploy Meteor JS applications on Cloud Foundry:

  - using a specialized meteor-js buildpack
  - using the general node-js buildpack
  - using your own docker container image

While a specialized meteor buildpack like [meteor-buildpack-horse](https://github.com/AdmitHub/meteor-buildpack-horse) or [cf-meteor-buildpack](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/cf-meteor-buildpack) is a useful options, recent versions of meteor support simplified deployment on servers that provide just a node.js runtime environment. For this demonstration repository, we're focusing on this approach because the node.js buildpack is more widely used and better maintained. 

The application we're going to deploy is located in the `./try-meteor` folder of this repository. We also assume you have provisioned a Mongo DB service on your space. At [meshcloud](https://panel.meshcloud.io/)'s Cloud Foundry, you can create a dedicated service instance suitable for use with meteor like this:

```bash
cf create-service MongoDB M meteor-mongo
```

## Using the node.js Buildpack

### Build a meteor app bundle
On your local machine with the meteor cli installed, build a distributable package into the `deploy-buildpack` folder:

```bash
cd try-meteor && meteor build ../deploy-buildpack/. --server-only --architecture os.linux.x86_64
```

Building generates a `try-meteor.tar.gz` file with the meteor application bundled as a plain node.js application, with some helfpful instructions in its `README.md` file: 
```
This is a Meteor application bundle. It has only one external dependency:
Node.js v8.9.3. To run the application:

  $ (cd programs/server && npm install)
  $ export MONGO_URL='mongodb://user:password@host:port/databasename'
  $ export ROOT_URL='http://example.com'
  $ export MAIL_URL='smtp://user:password@mailhost:port/'
  $ node main.js

Use the PORT environment variable to set the port where the
application will listen. The default is 80, but that will require
root on most systems.
```

### node.js buildpack wrapper
To deploy this tar.gz file on Cloud Foundry with the node.js buildpack we need to: 

  1. upload and unpack the tar.gz bundle
  2. run `npm install` on the extracted bundle
  3. set the correct environment variables using a launcher js script

We can easily achieve that through a custom `package.json` that uses npm's `postinstall` and `start` script to execute these actions. You can find the `package.json` and all required files for the deployment in the `./deploy-buildpack` folder.

> Note: at the time of writing the bundles generated by meteor 1.6.0.1  machine lack the `meteor-deque` dependency so we just explicitly add that by hand.

```json
{
  "name": "try-meteor",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node launcher.js",
    "postinstall": "tar -xf try-meteor.tar.gz && (cd bundle/programs/server && npm install)"
  },
  "engines" : {
    "node" : "8.9.3"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "meteor-deque": "~2.1.0",
    "cfenv": "1.0.4"
  }
}
```

Have a look at the `launcher.js` file if you want to change service names etc.
The final bit that we need is a Cloud Foundry Manifest file to describe our application: 

```yml
---
applications:
- name: try-meteor-app
  memory: 512M
  instances: 1
  buildpack: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/nodejs-buildpack
  services:
    - meteor-mongo
```

We're all set now, a simple `cf push` and your app should be up and running on the cloud. 

## Using a Docker Container

> Work in progress